README.md, before:

# Pulse

A modern iOS news aggregation app built with Clean Architecture, SwiftUI, and Combine. Powered by the Guardian API.

## Features

- **Authentication**: Firebase Auth with Google and Apple Sign-In (required before accessing app)
- **Home Feed**: Breaking news carousel and top headlines with infinite scrolling (settings accessible via gear icon)
- **For You**: Personalized feed based on followed topics and reading history
- **Categories**: Browse news by World, Business, Technology, Science, Health, Sports, Entertainment
- **Search**: Full-text search with 300ms debounce, suggestions, recent searches, and sort options
- **Bookmarks**: Save articles for offline reading with SwiftData persistence
- **Settings**: Customize topics, notifications, theme, content filters, and account/logout (accessed from Home navigation bar)

The app uses iOS 26's liquid glass TabView style with tabs: Home, For You, Categories, Bookmarks, and Search. Users must sign in with Google or Apple before accessing the main app.

## Architecture

Pulse implements a **Unidirectional Data Flow Architecture** based on Clean Architecture principles, using **Combine** for reactive data binding:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         View Layer                          │
│              (SwiftUI + @ObservedObject ViewModel)          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
         │ ViewEvent                    ↑ @Published ViewState
         ↓                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Presentation Layer                       │
│  ViewModel (CombineViewModel) + EventActionMap + Reducer    │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
         │ DomainAction                 ↑ DomainState (Combine)
         ↓                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                       Domain Layer                          │
│         Interactor (CombineInteractor + statePublisher)     │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
         │                              ↑
         ↓                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                       Service Layer                         │
│           (Protocol-based + Live/Mock implementations)      │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
         │                              ↑
         ↓                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                       Network Layer                         │
│                   (EntropyCore + SwiftData)                 │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Key Protocols

| Protocol | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `CombineViewModel` | Base protocol for ViewModels with `viewState` and `handle(event:)` |
| `CombineInteractor` | Base protocol for domain layer with `statePublisher` and `dispatch(action:)` |
| `ViewStateReducing` | Transforms DomainState → ViewState |
| `DomainEventActionMap` | Maps ViewEvent → DomainAction |

### Navigation

The app uses a **Coordinator + Router** pattern with per-tab NavigationPaths:

```
CoordinatorView (@StateObject Coordinator)
       │
   TabView (selection: $coordinator.selectedTab)
       │
   ┌───┴───┬───────┬─────────┬─────────┐
 Home   ForYou  Categories Bookmarks Search
   │       │        │          │        │
NavigationStack(path: $coordinator.homePath)
       │
.navigationDestination(for: Page.self)
       │
coordinator.build(page:)
```

- **Coordinator**: Central navigation manager owning all tab paths
- **CoordinatorView**: Root TabView with NavigationStacks per tab
- **Page**: Type-safe enum of all navigable destinations
- **NavigationRouter**: Feature-specific routers (conforming to EntropyCore protocol)
- **DeeplinkRouter**: Routes URL schemes through the Coordinator

Views are generic over their router type (`HomeView<R: HomeNavigationRouter>`) for testability.

## Requirements

- Xcode 26.0.1+
- iOS 26.1+
- Swift 5.0+

## Setup

### 1. Install XcodeGen

```bash
brew install xcodegen
```

### 2. Generate Project

```bash
make setup
```

### 3. Open in Xcode

```bash
open Pulse.xcodeproj
```

### 4. Configure API Key

Set environment variable or add to scheme:

```bash
export GUARDIAN_API_KEY="your_guardian_key"
```

## Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `make setup` | Install XcodeGen and generate project |
| `make build` | Build for development |
| `make test` | Run all tests |
| `make test-unit` | Run unit tests only |
| `make test-ui` | Run UI tests only |
| `make test-snapshot` | Run snapshot tests only |
| `make coverage` | Run tests with coverage report |
| `make lint` | Run SwiftFormat and SwiftLint |
| `make format` | Auto-format code |
| `make clean` | Remove generated project |

## Project Structure

```
Pulse/
├── Pulse/
│   ├── Authentication/     # Firebase Auth (Google + Apple Sign-In)
│   │   ├── API/            # AuthService protocol + Live/Mock implementations
│   │   ├── Domain/         # AuthDomainInteractor, State, Action
│   │   ├── ViewModel/      # SignInViewModel
│   │   ├── View/           # SignInView
│   │   └── Manager/        # AuthenticationManager (global state)
│   ├── Home/               # Home feed feature
│   │   ├── API/            # NewsService protocol + LiveNewsService
│   │   ├── Domain/         # Interactor, State, Action, Reducer, EventActionMap
│   │   ├── ViewModel/      # HomeViewModel
│   │   ├── View/           # SwiftUI views
│   │   ├── ViewEvents/     # HomeViewEvent
│   │   ├── ViewStates/     # HomeViewState
│   │   └── Router/         # HomeNavigationRouter
│   ├── ForYou/             # Personalized feed (same pattern)
│   ├── Categories/         # Category browsing
│   ├── Search/             # Search functionality
│   ├── Bookmarks/          # Saved articles
│   ├── Settings/           # User preferences + account/logout
│   ├── ArticleDetail/      # Article view
│   ├── SplashScreen/       # Launch animation
│   └── Configs/
│       ├── Navigation/     # Coordinator, Page, CoordinatorView, DeeplinkRouter
│       ├── DesignSystem/   # ColorSystem, Typography, Components, HapticManager
│       ├── Extensions/     # CombineViewModel, CombineInteractor, ViewStateReducing
│       ├── Models/         # Article, NewsCategory, UserPreferences
│       ├── Networking/     # APIKeysProvider, BaseURLs
│       ├── Storage/        # StorageService (SwiftData)
│       ├── Mocks/          # Mock services for testing
│       └── Widget/         # WidgetDataManager
├── PulseTests/             # Unit tests (Swift Testing)
├── PulseUITests/           # UI tests (XCTest)
├── PulseSnapshotTests/     # Snapshot tests (SnapshotTesting)
├── .github/workflows/      # CI/CD
└── .claude/commands/       # Claude Code integration
```

## Dependencies

| Package | Purpose |
|---------|---------|
| [EntropyCore](https://github.com/BrunoCerberus/EntropyCore) | Network layer abstraction |
| [Firebase](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk) | Authentication (Google + Apple Sign-In) |
| [GoogleSignIn](https://github.com/google/GoogleSignIn-iOS) | Google Sign-In SDK |
| [SnapshotTesting](https://github.com/pointfreeco/swift-snapshot-testing) | Snapshot testing |
| [Lottie](https://github.com/airbnb/lottie-ios) | Animations |

## CI/CD

GitHub Actions workflows:

- **ci.yml**: Runs on PRs - code quality, build, tests
- **scheduled-tests.yml**: Daily test runs at 2 AM UTC

## Schemes

| Scheme | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `PulseDev` | Development with all tests |
| `PulseProd` | Production release |
| `PulseTests` | Unit tests only |
| `PulseUITests` | UI tests only |
| `PulseSnapshotTests` | Snapshot tests only |

## Deeplinks

```
pulse://home                    # Open home tab
pulse://search?q=query          # Search with query
pulse://bookmarks               # Open bookmarks
pulse://settings                # Open settings
pulse://article?id=123          # Open specific article
pulse://category?name=tech      # Open category
```

## Testing

### Unit Tests
Tests for ViewModels, Interactors, and business logic using Swift Testing framework.

### UI Tests
End-to-end tests for navigation and user flows using XCTest.

### Snapshot Tests
Visual regression tests for UI components using SnapshotTesting.

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Run `make lint` and `make test`
5. Submit a pull request

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [Guardian API](https://open-platform.theguardian.com) - Primary news data provider

Commit message:

chore: remove Secrets.plist fallback from APIKeysProvider (#37)
* chore: remove Secrets.plist fallback from APIKeysProvider

Now that API keys are managed via Firebase Remote Config, the Secrets.plist
fallback mechanism is no longer needed. Removes dead code and simplifies the
fallback hierarchy to: Remote Config → Environment Variables → Keychain.

* docs: update API keys documentation for Remote Config

Update README.md, CLAUDE.md, and AGENTS.md to document that API keys
are now managed via Firebase Remote Config with environment variable
and keychain fallbacks. Secrets.plist is no longer used.

README.md, after:

# Pulse

A modern iOS news aggregation app built with Clean Architecture, SwiftUI, and Combine. Powered by the Guardian API.

## Features

- **Authentication**: Firebase Auth with Google and Apple Sign-In (required before accessing app)
- **Home Feed**: Breaking news carousel and top headlines with infinite scrolling (settings accessible via gear icon)
- **For You**: Personalized feed based on followed topics and reading history
- **Categories**: Browse news by World, Business, Technology, Science, Health, Sports, Entertainment
- **Search**: Full-text search with 300ms debounce, suggestions, recent searches, and sort options
- **Bookmarks**: Save articles for offline reading with SwiftData persistence
- **Settings**: Customize topics, notifications, theme, content filters, and account/logout (accessed from Home navigation bar)

The app uses iOS 26's liquid glass TabView style with tabs: Home, For You, Categories, Bookmarks, and Search. Users must sign in with Google or Apple before accessing the main app.

## Architecture

Pulse implements a **Unidirectional Data Flow Architecture** based on Clean Architecture principles, using **Combine** for reactive data binding:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         View Layer                          │
│              (SwiftUI + @ObservedObject ViewModel)          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
         │ ViewEvent                    ↑ @Published ViewState
         ↓                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Presentation Layer                       │
│  ViewModel (CombineViewModel) + EventActionMap + Reducer    │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
         │ DomainAction                 ↑ DomainState (Combine)
         ↓                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                       Domain Layer                          │
│         Interactor (CombineInteractor + statePublisher)     │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
         │                              ↑
         ↓                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                       Service Layer                         │
│           (Protocol-based + Live/Mock implementations)      │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
         │                              ↑
         ↓                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                       Network Layer                         │
│                   (EntropyCore + SwiftData)                 │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Key Protocols

| Protocol | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `CombineViewModel` | Base protocol for ViewModels with `viewState` and `handle(event:)` |
| `CombineInteractor` | Base protocol for domain layer with `statePublisher` and `dispatch(action:)` |
| `ViewStateReducing` | Transforms DomainState → ViewState |
| `DomainEventActionMap` | Maps ViewEvent → DomainAction |

### Navigation

The app uses a **Coordinator + Router** pattern with per-tab NavigationPaths:

```
CoordinatorView (@StateObject Coordinator)
       │
   TabView (selection: $coordinator.selectedTab)
       │
   ┌───┴───┬───────┬─────────┬─────────┐
 Home   ForYou  Categories Bookmarks Search
   │       │        │          │        │
NavigationStack(path: $coordinator.homePath)
       │
.navigationDestination(for: Page.self)
       │
coordinator.build(page:)
```

- **Coordinator**: Central navigation manager owning all tab paths
- **CoordinatorView**: Root TabView with NavigationStacks per tab
- **Page**: Type-safe enum of all navigable destinations
- **NavigationRouter**: Feature-specific routers (conforming to EntropyCore protocol)
- **DeeplinkRouter**: Routes URL schemes through the Coordinator

Views are generic over their router type (`HomeView<R: HomeNavigationRouter>`) for testability.

## Requirements

- Xcode 26.0.1+
- iOS 26.1+
- Swift 5.0+

## Setup

### 1. Install XcodeGen

```bash
brew install xcodegen
```

### 2. Generate Project

```bash
make setup
```

### 3. Open in Xcode

```bash
open Pulse.xcodeproj
```

### 4. API Keys

API keys are managed via **Firebase Remote Config** (primary) with environment variable fallback for CI/CD:

```bash
# For CI/CD or local development without Remote Config
export GUARDIAN_API_KEY="your_guardian_key"
```

The app fetches keys from Remote Config on launch. Environment variables are used as fallback when Remote Config is unavailable.

## Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `make setup` | Install XcodeGen and generate project |
| `make build` | Build for development |
| `make test` | Run all tests |
| `make test-unit` | Run unit tests only |
| `make test-ui` | Run UI tests only |
| `make test-snapshot` | Run snapshot tests only |
| `make coverage` | Run tests with coverage report |
| `make lint` | Run SwiftFormat and SwiftLint |
| `make format` | Auto-format code |
| `make clean` | Remove generated project |

## Project Structure

```
Pulse/
├── Pulse/
│   ├── Authentication/     # Firebase Auth (Google + Apple Sign-In)
│   │   ├── API/            # AuthService protocol + Live/Mock implementations
│   │   ├── Domain/         # AuthDomainInteractor, State, Action
│   │   ├── ViewModel/      # SignInViewModel
│   │   ├── View/           # SignInView
│   │   └── Manager/        # AuthenticationManager (global state)
│   ├── Home/               # Home feed feature
│   │   ├── API/            # NewsService protocol + LiveNewsService
│   │   ├── Domain/         # Interactor, State, Action, Reducer, EventActionMap
│   │   ├── ViewModel/      # HomeViewModel
│   │   ├── View/           # SwiftUI views
│   │   ├── ViewEvents/     # HomeViewEvent
│   │   ├── ViewStates/     # HomeViewState
│   │   └── Router/         # HomeNavigationRouter
│   ├── ForYou/             # Personalized feed (same pattern)
│   ├── Categories/         # Category browsing
│   ├── Search/             # Search functionality
│   ├── Bookmarks/          # Saved articles
│   ├── Settings/           # User preferences + account/logout
│   ├── ArticleDetail/      # Article view
│   ├── SplashScreen/       # Launch animation
│   └── Configs/
│       ├── Navigation/     # Coordinator, Page, CoordinatorView, DeeplinkRouter
│       ├── DesignSystem/   # ColorSystem, Typography, Components, HapticManager
│       ├── Extensions/     # CombineViewModel, CombineInteractor, ViewStateReducing
│       ├── Models/         # Article, NewsCategory, UserPreferences
│       ├── Networking/     # APIKeysProvider, BaseURLs
│       ├── Storage/        # StorageService (SwiftData)
│       ├── Mocks/          # Mock services for testing
│       └── Widget/         # WidgetDataManager
├── PulseTests/             # Unit tests (Swift Testing)
├── PulseUITests/           # UI tests (XCTest)
├── PulseSnapshotTests/     # Snapshot tests (SnapshotTesting)
├── .github/workflows/      # CI/CD
└── .claude/commands/       # Claude Code integration
```

## Dependencies

| Package | Purpose |
|---------|---------|
| [EntropyCore](https://github.com/BrunoCerberus/EntropyCore) | Network layer abstraction |
| [Firebase](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk) | Authentication (Google + Apple Sign-In) |
| [GoogleSignIn](https://github.com/google/GoogleSignIn-iOS) | Google Sign-In SDK |
| [SnapshotTesting](https://github.com/pointfreeco/swift-snapshot-testing) | Snapshot testing |
| [Lottie](https://github.com/airbnb/lottie-ios) | Animations |

## CI/CD

GitHub Actions workflows:

- **ci.yml**: Runs on PRs - code quality, build, tests
- **scheduled-tests.yml**: Daily test runs at 2 AM UTC

## Schemes

| Scheme | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `PulseDev` | Development with all tests |
| `PulseProd` | Production release |
| `PulseTests` | Unit tests only |
| `PulseUITests` | UI tests only |
| `PulseSnapshotTests` | Snapshot tests only |

## Deeplinks

```
pulse://home                    # Open home tab
pulse://search?q=query          # Search with query
pulse://bookmarks               # Open bookmarks
pulse://settings                # Open settings
pulse://article?id=123          # Open specific article
pulse://category?name=tech      # Open category
```

## Testing

### Unit Tests
Tests for ViewModels, Interactors, and business logic using Swift Testing framework.

### UI Tests
End-to-end tests for navigation and user flows using XCTest.

### Snapshot Tests
Visual regression tests for UI components using SnapshotTesting.

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Run `make lint` and `make test`
5. Submit a pull request

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [Guardian API](https://open-platform.theguardian.com) - Primary news data provider
